---
layout: post
title:  "The Importance of Questioning Everything"
---

Even this blog post, perhaps.  Maybe, instead, you should question nothing.  But then you're questioning this post, and therefore questioning something.  Think about that for a second.

Moving on from being deliberately confusing.  The tech industry is a fast-moving, ever-changing maelstrom of an industry. Its easy to get sucked in by the variety of new technologies emerging every day, and the various opinions surrounding them.  Keeping up to date, and keeping your skills relevant, is important for survival.  If you're not constantly improving yourself, you run the very serious risk (read: the certainty) of being left behind.

Being successful in this industry requires many things, including a naturally cynical mind.  In order to remain bleeding-edge as a developer or designer, one must not only remain abreast of current trends, but also always question established norms.  As a developer or designer, you should never ever do something just because its what everyone else is doing.  You should never let the screaming masses sway you towards something you know is a bad choice; its entirely possible for a million people to be wrong.  You should never accept that there simply is no better way; we are the builders of this medium, if there is no better way, we can create one.  You should never take the easy or fast path to success; what seems like success today will damn you tomorrow.  And you should never even completely trust yourself; no one knows everything.

Take the current trend of client-side MVC JavaScript frameworks like Ember.js and Angular.js for example.  Until recently, JavaScript was for light interactivity, and you had jQuery to help you with that.  But jQuery quickly turns your code into a pasta dinner with its nested DOM elements if you try to make anything of decent size with it.  So people came up with a better solution, because they questioned the norm of serving static HTML content generated on the server.  Now we have single page webapps that aren't a complete nightmare to create.

In this industry, we pride ourselves as innovators.  It's true that software is an amazingly innovative thing, its revolutionizing every industry on Earth in some way or another.  Software is eating the world, as they say.  With this in mind, its important for those us helping to create this Brave New World that we not allow ourselves to fall into the trap of doing something because its how we're used to doing it, or because its easiest, or because our colleagues tell us its the best way.  In order to solve problems, we must always be looking for them.  You have the power to change software by waggling your fingers for a while and seeing it happen; if you don't like something, change it.
