---
layout: post
title:  "Getting Passionate"
---

Anyone who's ever given serious thought to the idea of passion and productivity should be able to tell you that being productive and successful boils down to a pretty simple idea: If you're passionate about it, you'll do it.  If you're not passionate, you won't.  If you're not passionate, you'll make up excuses, claim you don't have time, you're too overworked, too distracted.  You'll tell yourself, "I'll do it tomorrow", or "I'll start once I'm less busy at work".  If you're making these kinds of claims, you're simply not passionate about it, full stop.

Obviously some people find this to be a little disheartening.  People have these grand ideas about themselves.  They think that they're special.  That they have a gift, or a calling.  They have a dream, like my man Martin Luther King.  They've always wanted to be an author, or a singer, or a developer. They dream of becoming famous, or rich, or maybe just happy.  But when people dream up these fantasies for themselves, they tend to focus on becoming the person they want to be, and not on doing the thing associated with it.  People like that, they dream of being a writer, they don't dream of writing.  Its not the work they're interested in, it's the idea of themselves as the person they want to be.  But the simple reality is, if you want to be a writer, all you have to do is write.  If you want to be a designer, all you have to do is design.  If you want to be a programmer, all you have to do is program.

I've always dreamed of being a programmer.  Since I first got my hands on a computer, I've wanted to be a programmer.  It says right under the "Future Aspirations" section of my middle school yearbook, "Become a programmer".  You could say that I felt I had a calling.  In school, when my classmates were struggling over what they wanted to be, I already knew. Don't get me wrong, I've had moments of flip-flopping.  In high school, I considered going into business, or accounting, because it was easy.  But I'd always get over my insecurities, and end up back on programming.

But of course, I was like everyone else.  I'd made efforts over the years, hacked away at this or that, taught myself Python in highschool, but I fell into that same trap.  I was obsessed with being a programmer, but not with programming itself.  Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed it.  But it was the end and not means I focused on.

I've made progress though.  I've discovered in myself not just a desire to become a programmer, but a love for programming itself.  Everything about it. Writing algorithms on white boards. The syntax of my favourite languages.  The frustration that comes with encountering a problem and the euphoric sense of accomplishment after fixing it.  The feeling of god-like power that comes with looking back on a creation and thinking "I made something cool", even if no one else cares, even if I'm the only one who thinks its cool.

I have a job in the industry, and I'm finishing up my degree part-time, but its not enough.  I feel I have to do more, so that I can look at myself and say with confidence "I am passionate about programming".  That change in myself, becoming passionate, starts right now for me.  I say that I won't wait, not another second.  From this moment on, I will work every single day on my passion.  Some days maybe more than others, but every day I will work on it.  As it is, thoughts about programming are never far from my mind.  I think about it all day, every day.  I lose sleep over it.  I'd say its about time I made my mark on the world.


