---
layout: post
title:  "Question Everything"
---

Even this blog post, perhaps.  Definitely this blog post, I'd say.  Question what you had for dinner last night.  Was it really chicken alfredo, or does *the patriarchy* just want you to think it was chicken alfredo.  Who knows?  Do you?  Question that too.

Moving on from being deliberately confusing.  The tech industry is a fast-moving, ever-changing maelstrom of an industry. Its easy to get sucked in by the variety of new technologies emerging every day, and the various opinions surrounding them.  Keeping up to date, and keeping your skills relevant, is important for survival.  If you're not constantly improving yourself, you run the very serious risk (read: the certainty) of being left behind.

<!--excerpt-->

Being successful in this industry requires many things, including a naturally cynical mind.  In order to remain bleeding-edge as a developer or designer, one must not only remain abreast of current trends, but also always question established norms.  As a developer/designer/maker/hula dancer, you should never ever do something just because its what everyone else is doing.  You should never let the screaming masses sway you towards something you know is a bad choice; its entirely possible for a million people to be wrong.  You should never accept that there simply is no better way; we are the builders of this medium, if there is no better way, we can create one.  You should never take the easy or fast path to success; what seems like success today will damn you tomorrow.  And you should never even completely trust yourself; no one knows everything.

Take the trend of client-side MVC JavaScript frameworks like [Ember.js](http://emberjs.com/) and [Angular.js](http://angularjs.org/) for example.  Until recently, JavaScript was for light interactivity, and you had [jQuery](http://jquery.com/) to help you with that.  But jQuery quickly turns your code into a pasta dinner with its nested DOM elements if you try to make anything of decent size with it.  So people came up with a better solution, because they questioned the norm of serving static HTML content generated on the server.  Now we have single page webapps that aren't a complete nightmare to create. Or, as a more extreme and maybe better example, look at [Dart](https://www.dartlang.org/).  Dart's intended purpose is to eventually replace Javascript all together.  Rather than taking what existed, and adding onto it like the people working on various JS frameworks, Dart's creators decided that JavaScript as a language was flawed, and that they would be better off making something new.

In this industry, we pride ourselves as innovators.  It's true that software is an amazingly innovative thing, its revolutionizing every industry on Earth in some way or another.  Software is eating the world, as they say.  With this in mind, its important for those us helping to create this Brave New World to not allow ourselves to fall into the trap of doing something because its how we're used to doing it. Or because its easy. Or because our colleagues tell us its the best way.  In order to solve problems, we must always be looking for them.  You have the power to change software by dreaming something up and waggling your fingers; if you don't like something, you can always change it.
