---
layout: post
title:  "Sacrifice"
---

In an earlier blog post, I talked about following one’s passion in life.  I can't honestly say that its full of new, groundbreaking ideas, but it chronicles the realizations I've had about following your passion, and about the dedication it takes. However, there's one fairly import aspect of following your dreams that I didn't talk about: the sacrifices you have to make along the way.  I left that part out by design; I feel that it needs its own post entirely.

Passion is a largely romanticized concept, especially in the hacker culture.  Following your dreams must be so liberating!  Every day must be a new adventure!  Oh how happy it must make you to be the master of your own destiny!  On and on.  I think its very rarely that simple though.  Following dreams isn't something you do because its a fun; it's something you do because you just can't help yourself.  Because if you don't, you feel physically ill.  Because if you don't, you can't sleep.  Following your dreams requires more than a love for your dream.  It requires fanaticism for it.

This is because, despite the romantic image associated with following your dreams, its not an easy thing to do.  The reason most people don't follow their dreams is because its really, really, soul-crushingly difficult to do so.  You will encounter a lot of problems along the way.  People will stand in your way and try to stop you.  Some of those people will be competition, or rivals, or people that just don't like you.  But others will be people that you like, people that you love even.  They'll try to talk you out of it, tell you you're being foolish, tell you that you won't succeed.  And as a result, your relationships will suffer, whether through disagreement or neglect.

This is the part no one's prepared for, what no one really expects.  In order to make your dreams reality, you will have to make sacrifices along the way.  Friendships will be slain upon the altar of passion.  You can kiss a great big ton of your leisure time goodbye. And you will never, ever, ever be able to stop thinking about it, not really.

I'm not just talking out of my ass here; I've had dreams that I've followed before.  I'd always dreamed of travelling growing up.  Seeing the world a bit.  But it was never really convenient for me to just up and do it.  So one day, when I was in my second year of University, I suddenly decided that I was just going to do it anyways.  That I would drop out, and travel with my girlfriend of the time.  And what's more, I decided I would tell no one apart from her that I was going until I'd already left.  I knew that if I approached my friends and family about it, that they'd try to talk me out of it, and I knew that they might succeed.  They'd tell me "just wait, the timing isn't right, wait until you've graduated", or "wait until you've saved more money". But I knew that the timing would never be right, and that I'd just end up waiting forever.  So, rather than take the chance of being talked out of my dream by my friends and family, who of course only had my best interests in mind, I decided I would have to hurt them in order to realize my dream.  I made the conscious decision to hurt the people I love for my own selfish desires.  This is what I mean by sacrifice.  I hated myself for what I did, but I don't feel that I made the wrong choice.  The people it hurt will never understand why I chose to do what I did, and I'm truly and deeply sorry for that, but I don't regret it.  Those months I spent travelling were the hardest I've ever had.  I spent some nights sleeping in the streets after I ran out of money.  Once I found work, I often worked 16-hour days doing hard labour just for enough money to eat.  I lost about 30-40 pounds.  But they were also some of the best and most fulfilling months I've had.  I grew tremendously as a person from the experience, and I wouldn't be who I am today if I hadn't followed my dream.

What am I trying to articulate to you, dear reader?  That if you truly, deeply desire something, you must realize the cost of achieving your heart's desire.  But know also that no matter how hard it is, and no matter how much you have to give up, that one day when you look back at your experiences, you'll do so without regret, and that in the end you'll know it was worth it.


